# Predicting Credit Risk

In this assignment, I built a machine learning model that attempts to predict whether a loan will be approved or not. 

## Background

Lending services companies allow individual investors to partially fund personal loans as well as buy and sell notes backing the loans on a secondary market. I used this data to create machine learning models to classify the risk level of given loans. Specifically, I compared the Logistic Regression model and Random Forest Classifier.

## Consider the models

I created and compared the loan data provided: a logistic regression, and a random forests classifier. Before I created, fit, and scored the models, I predicted that the logistic regression model will perform better than the random forest classifier as logistic regression tends to do better when presented with categorical or binary data. Since the data used determines if a loan was approved or not by indicating "1" or "0", logistic regression would be better suited.    

## Fit a LogisticRegression model and RandomForestClassifier model

For each model, I performed scaled and unscaled testing a LogisticRegression model, fit it to the data, and print the model's score using a random state of 777, 10,00 iterations (for logistic regression) and five hundred estimators (for random forest classifier) as my hyperparameters.

## Analysis
Both the unscaled logistic regression (LR) testing and training scores were remarkably close as were the scaled LR scores. Additionally, both the scaled and unscaled LR results were close to each other. On the other side, the random forest classifier (RFC) scores were close to one another due to the fact I used a high random state, and it would be equally likely that these scores would drop if I reduced the state to a much lower number. Technically, RFC unscaled and scaled slightly outperformed LR unscaled and scaled, but I was expecting the LR models to do better in this instance. 

Here are my initial results (truncated): 
* Unscaled LR Training Data Score: 0.99233
* Unscaled LR Testing Data Score:  0.99122
* Unscaled RFC Training Score: 0.99748
* Unscaled RFC Testing Score: 0.99164
* Scaled LR Training Data Score: 0.99427
* Scaled LR Testing Data Score: 0.99370
* Scaled RFC Training Score: 0.99748
* Scaled RFC Testing Score: 0.99133

Running these models again with a lower random state number and modifying the other parameters most likely would not move the results with the slightest significance. So, while my initial assumption that logistic regression would yield better results, I can take solace that the two models ended in a virtual tie. 

### References

Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data generated by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand, and is intended for educational purposes only.
